Imperial Tobacco Plc spelled out its blueprint for export growth this week, seeking to silence critics of its strategy who have contributed to driving down the shareprice by 17 percent since its Oct 1 demerger from Hanson Plc.
Imperial's chain-smoking chief executive, Gareth Davis, who joined the company after graduating from Sheffield University in 1972, told Reuters in an interview that investors should not under-estimate his determination to expand exports fast.
"Admittedly we were a late entrant to international markets. But that's because we had to get our costs licked," he said.
Getting costs licked helped make Imperial one of the most efficient players in its sector in the 10 years under Hanson's ownership, with productivity raised by 195 percent in a [decade]Filan last.
Davis sees it continuing to grow by eight to nine percent over the next four years, he said.
Natwest Markets and Credit Lyonnais issued sell notes on Imperial this month. But SBC Warburg said it was undervalued, citing its efficiency and greater attraction as a bid target over Gallaher, the American Brands UK unit due to be demerged.
Expanding on his growth plans, he said "We have already grown profits with little dilution of margins. Our strategy to grow is very much a multi-pronged route.
He said these key markets in Asia and China already had a preference for the Virginia style of cigarette, a plain unflavoured tobacco variety which is Imperial's strength.
The company has already set up a base in Hong Kong, with a senior marketing recruit from Marlboro cigarettes. It is establishing four bases in China and has a technical co-operation agreement with China's state tobacco company.
It is focused on developing in Taiwan, South Korea, Malaysia and Indonesia.
The group said it will seek joint ventures and distribution deals in these emerging markets.
Imperial is already gearing up to cope with a possible surge in production at its Nottingham plant in Britain.
Company bosses clinched a deal with unions to add a third shift from May onwards, which could allow capacity to be raised by one third to 53 billion cigarettes from 37 billion.
Davis has pledged shareholder value through expansion. But if cash builds up and there are no buying opportunities the company will consider a share buy back.